All right.
So last time we stopped after we created the procedure for converting our row file into working file
.
So for fake names kind.
And why did we stop Well we stopped because we got an error.
We tried to run the procedure.
The body of the procedure and we got an error saying that there's an error converting data type of bar
chart to load.
What does that mean.
Well this is pretty straightforward.
What it means is that somewhere here when we're selecting of our table from our table and putting the
data into our working table there is a conversion error so we as we said we're relying on implicit conversion
and that implicit conversion is not going through somewhere.
So not for everything just for maybe one two or a couple of rows maybe a couple thousand rows but for
some rows somewhere a VAR char so basically a line of text is not being converted properly into a float
.
There's an error in that conversion so that right away it narrows down our search we have to investigate
this.
And this narrows down our search.
We only have two floats right.
We don't have balance and interest rate.
So one of them or maybe both of them but it kind of error message out as soon as that happens and actually
tells you.
Well you know it tells you the line of code in here so there's not a line in your in your daughter.
So we need to investigate which one of these it is so that's the first step to find out exactly which
column The error is happening and the way we're going to investigate is we going to take this and we're
going to rerun the insert just by itself because everything else is ready the tables empty.
This is just us experimenting now so we're going to run this insert and obviously as you get the same
error now we will comment on to one of the float columns so balance that's come in and commented out
and commented out here so basically were saying insert these columns.
So.
So these these columns and this column and find the data here.
So basically it's gone ignore the Balance Bar and that's fine.
You can do that.
So if you're on this here it says string or binary data would be truncated.
OK so what does that mean that means it's a different era.
This means now that there is a problem.
Now there's a different problem is a problem converting a string or not actually converting a string
or taking a string and placing it into one of our columns so it's too long for one or more columns.
So basically what that means for us is that by getting and coming out come into our balance we get rid
of the previous era and we moved on to the next one so that original era that we're looking for was
in the Balance column and not in the interest rate column although further down the track that might
be another one in interest interest rate.
So that's kind of a way to narrow down that one specific area that's going on right now.
So now let's have a look at another approach a more thorough approach I guess.
So we know that there's only two columns that are being converted to float.
So why don't we check them.
Why don't we check everything in these columns and understand what could be going wrong.
So let's start with the balance column.
So we're going to say select star.
So still keep losing the star.
Select everything from the road table where and this is just typing randomly so we'll delete this code
so I'm gonna be part of the progress in our investigation.
You could even open up a new and maybe let's do that just for you.
So that it's it's more accurate.
We'll open up a new query window here and we'll do our investigation or here so we'll say
use your training go that might be better if we put it.
No no it's fine.
Is just saying go and they will say select star from are all fake names.
Canada and here we want to say where they don't want to take the balance column and we want to put around
the balance Corporate a function which is numeric.
You can see it being part is popping up here.
Now this pink means it's a built in function is numeric and it will say isn't equal to one meaning is
not true.
So this function checks if this column in that specific row the value of this column is a numeric or
you know it can be an Americorp it can be a non-numeric can be a text for instance.
So this function checks if it's a numeric and if it's not a numeric.
If it's an American trojans or one if it's not in American returns is zero.
So we want to know when does it return to zero.
So let's run this.
What this is going to give us is all of the columns where balance is not an American Let's have a look
here.
So here you can see that balance in their balance column we've got a very random values MasterCard Visa
Mastercard Visa Mastercard Visa his visa 0.
So basically obviously you can convert any of these values into a float and that's how we're getting
the arrows.
And that means that this is where the problem lies.
These
values have somehow gotten into the balance column when they shouldn't be there.
So we need to exclude them obviously from our imports and put them into a separate table or file and
then send them off to further investigation like like we would have done in the previous sections of
the course.
So let's do that will take.
This is numeric bit and now we're going to start adding filters so it here will say filters.
And this is going to be our first filter where is the very balance but we don't want to sort out the
ones where it's not equal to what we want sort of the ones where it is equal to one.
Why because we only want the numeric ones.
So if we run that now it won't run properly again because of the other area but at least we don't have
the original error which we had to balance.
So if we run like this we're fault the filter.
What happens is we get the Bartsch our error.
But now if we conclude the filter because we're taking out these values that are screwing up this upload
or conversion we only have this other error where something's been truncated.
So that's how we're going to deal with errors.
And this was our first one.
The only other thing that we need to specify is how many rows this specific filter effect.
So we know here from from this query we know that it's 10 rows so it's typed in here.
We need to keep track of these things for quality assurance because at the end we will have a number
of rows affected by the insert.
And obviously it won't match up to the number of rows in the raw table but if we then add up all of
the rows to be excluded and also the rows that actually got inserted then they should add up to the
number of rows in the row table.
So that's how we're going to work with anomalies.
This is Us surgically removing elements that are nonconforming move the required format and in the next
tutorial we will deal with this era